# Development of a social impact assessment tool
This tool allows companies to analyze their social impact, understanding social impact as the reactions of people on social networks, as well as the reactions of the media to the actions carried out by a company. The information provided by the tool combines data extracted from a Twitter analysis, Google searches and news on newspapers.

## Resources

We extract information from the following data sources:

- **Twitter​**: with the Tweepy API [1] for python we extract user’s opinions about the company over the time. In addition, a sentiment analysis of those opinions will be developed in order to classify those opinions thanks to machine learning algorithms. 
- **Newspaper articles​**: we will use the API [2] to look for articles in which the company appears over the time in different newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal or The New York Times. We will also perform a sentiment analysis of those articles to see if they are positive or negative for the company.
- **Google trends​**: this tool provides a measurement of the social interest in the company by showing the amount of times people searched it on Google. With the pseudo-API Pytrends [3] we will relate it with the other two sources.

## Technologies used
In the development of the project we used the following technologies:
- **Spark and SparkSQL​**: to find relevant information from tweets and news, such as most repeated words in articles or percentage of positive tweets.
- **Spark MLlib​** [4] to create an analysis model of the emotions for the text.
- **MySQL** database to store the data generated by the previous processes and connect it to the visualization tool.
- **Google Data Studio** [5] to provide the visualization of the insights obtained with the previous technologies.
- **Microsoft Azure**, where this tool was deployed.

## Requirements
- Python 3
- Tweepy
- PySpark
- PyTrends
- NewsAPI
- MySQL

## References 
[1] Roesslein, Joshua. “Tweepy Documentation.” Getting Started - Tweepy 3.5.0 Documentation, 2009, tweepy.readthedocs.io/en/v3.5.0/.

[2] Newsapi.org. (n.d.). News API - A JSON API for live news and blog articles. [online] Available at: https://newsapi.org/ [Accessed 8 Nov. 2018].

[3] Python Software Foundation. “Pytrends.” PyPI, 2018, pypi.org/project/pytrends/.

[4] Datastudio.google.com. (n.d.). Data Studio Product Overview. [online] Available at: https://datastudio.google.com [Accessed 8 Nov. 2018].

[5] Apache Spark. (2018). Unified Analytics Engine for Big Data. [online] Available at: spark.apache.org/mllib/.